README.md, before:

# Django Salted

**One-command Django and PostgreSQL development environment on Vagrant.**

![Shake it, shake it, shake it like a salt shaker...](https://raw.github.com/wunki/django-salted/master/files/salt-shaker.png "Shake it!")

This is a complete [SaltStack] configuration for a Django centric stack. It
enables you setup a solid Django development environment with a single
command. Some of the great things which are included:

- *Local development*, but the code is run within Ubuntu with the help of a
  share.
- Server running on *[uWSGI]* and *[Nginx]*. uWSGI *reloads* your python code
  automagically.
- *[PostgreSQL]* is installed and setup for you. No more explaining to your
  designer how to get the project running.
- Some helpfull *[Fabric]* functions, e.g., running `syncdb` on Vagrant.
- *[Celery]* using *[RabbitMQ]* as a broker and *[Redis]* as a result backend.
- *[Redis]* for Django caching.
- *[Supervisor]* to run the *[Celery]* workers defined in pillar data.


**Table of Contents**

- [Django Salted](#django-salted)
	- [Requirements](#requirements)
	- [Getting started (quick)](#getting-started-quick)
	- [Modify for your own project](#modify-for-your-own-project)
	- [FAQ](#faq)
		- [How do I get the get the latest state/version?](#how-do-i-get-the-get-the-latest-stateversion)
		- [Which Operating Systems are supported?](#which-operating-systems-are-supported)
		- [I'm getting "502 Bad Gateway" from Nginx](#i'm-getting-502-bad-gateway-from-nginx)
		- [OMG, you also put the private key on Github?](#omg-you-also-put-the-private-key-on-github)
	- [Want to help?](#want-to-help)
	- [License](#license)

**The repository is accomponied with a blog post we put on [Gibbon]. Go read
[Salting your Django Stack] if you want to know how this came to be.**

## Requirements

Django salted requires the following software to be installed on your machine:

- [Virtualbox]
- [Vagrant]
- [Salty Vagrant]

You also need [Fabric] and [Fabtools] if you want to run the Fabric
commands. You can find these requirements in the [requirements.txt] file in
the root directory.

All of the above are open-source and free to use.

## Submodules

Some of the salt states use salt formulas that are pulled in via git submodules.
The following will ensure these exist.

    git submodule init
    git submodule update

## Getting started (quick)

If you want to quickly try out what this is all about. Your installation will
adhere to the default configuration and use the example Django project. If you
have the requirements installed, it's just a single command:

    vagrant up

After running this command, you should see the Django example website on:
[http://127.0.0.1:8080/](http://127.0.0.1:8080). However, your database tables
still need to be created. There is a fabric command to help you with that:

    fab vagrant syncdb

You will also need to collect the static files to use the demo project. This can be done with fabric also:

    fab vagrant collectstatic

The demo_project is a very simple project with the Djagno Admin [http://127.0.0.1:8080/admin](http://127.0.0.1:8080/admin)

The vagrant machine uses a virtual venvironment located at `/home/vagrant/env`

After getting familiar with it, using Django Salted on your own project is
simple done with changing a few settings.

- You will run and develop on the Django (1.7.x) `demo_project` inside the VM.
- Ubuntu 14.04 will be used as OS.
- Domain is: vagrant.django-salted.org

## Modify for your own project

Linux

    apt-get install rpl
    rpl -R "demo_project" "your_project_name" *
    mv demo_project your_project_name
    mv your_project_name/demo_project your_project_name/you_project_name

TODO: Write how to modify this repository for your own project.

## FAQ

### How do I get the get the latest state/version?

The fastest way is to run `vagrant provision`. The downfall is that you don't
see what's happening in colors. Or SSH to the box (my favourite) by doing the
following:

    vagrant ssh
    # On the box...
    sudo salt-call state.highstate

### Which Operating Systems are supported?

Currently I have only tested it on Ubuntu 12.04 box. In the future there will
be support for Debian and FreeBSD.

### I'm getting "502 Bad Gateway" from Nginx

Ajj! This means uWSGI is down. It takes 15 seconds for uWSGI to spin up from a
cold boot (because we have to wait on the Vagrant share). However, if after 15
seconds it's still not working, check out what went wrong by looking at the logs:

    vagrant ssh
    sudo cat /var/log/uwsgi/example.log
    # or check the boss (emperor)
    sudo cat /var/log/uwsgi/emperor.log

Let me know in an issue if this is something I need to fix.

### OMG, you also put the private key on Github?

Yes, this private key is used for the Vagrant example project. It's supposed
to be there so you can spin up a box with a single command. Don't put your own
private keys there.

## Want to help?

That would be great! Check out the [TODO.org] or the [Issues] on things to do.

## License

Django-salted was created by Petar Radosevic. You can reach out to me on
twitter at [@wunki].

It's BSD Licensed. Use it however you want, just don't try to sell it back to
me.

[SaltStack]: http://saltstack.com/community.html
[Gibbon]: http://blog.gibbon.co
[PostgreSQL]: http://www.postgresql.org/
[Salting your Django Stack]: http://blog.gibbon.co/posts/2013-06-12-salting-your-django-stack.html
[Virtualbox]: https://www.virtualbox.org/
[Vagrant]: http://www.vagrantup.com/
[Salty Vagrant]: https://github.com/saltstack/salty-vagrant
[uWSGI]: http://uwsgi-docs.readthedocs.org/
[Nginx]: http://nginx.org/
[Fabric]: http://fabfile.org/
[Fabtools]: https://github.com/ronnix/fabtools
[requirements.txt]: https://github.com/wunki/django-salted/blob/master/requirements.txt
[Vagrantfile]: https://github.com/wunki/django-salted/blob/master/Vagrantfile
[TODO.org]: https://github.com/wunki/django-salted/blob/master/TODO.org
[Issues]: https://github.com/wunki/django-salted/issues
[@wunki]: https://twitter.com/wunki
[Celery]: http://www.celeryproject.org/
[RabbitMQ]: http://www.rabbitmq.com/
[Redis]: http://redis.io/
[Supervisor]: http://supervisord.org/

Commit message:

Directory demo_project is now demo-project which uses a git submoule - pointing to https://github.com/alexhayes/django-1.7-template Added bower install sls. Renamed some salt states to better confirm to naming conventions.

README.md, after:

# Django Salted

**One-command Django and PostgreSQL development environment on Vagrant.**

![Shake it, shake it, shake it like a salt shaker...](https://raw.github.com/wunki/django-salted/master/files/salt-shaker.png "Shake it!")

This is a complete [SaltStack] configuration for a Django centric stack. It
enables you setup a solid Django development environment with a single
command. Some of the great things which are included:

- *Local development*, but the code is run within Ubuntu with the help of a
  share.
- Server running on *[uWSGI]* and *[Nginx]*. uWSGI *reloads* your python code
  automagically.
- *[PostgreSQL]* is installed and setup for you. No more explaining to your
  designer how to get the project running.
- Some helpfull *[Fabric]* functions, e.g., running `syncdb` on Vagrant.
- *[Celery]* using *[RabbitMQ]* as a broker and *[Redis]* as a result backend.
- *[Redis]* for Django caching.
- *[Supervisor]* to run the *[Celery]* workers defined in pillar data.


**Table of Contents**

- [Django Salted](#django-salted)
	- [Requirements](#requirements)
	- [Getting started (quick)](#getting-started-quick)
	- [Modify for your own project](#modify-for-your-own-project)
	- [FAQ](#faq)
		- [How do I get the get the latest state/version?](#how-do-i-get-the-get-the-latest-stateversion)
		- [Which Operating Systems are supported?](#which-operating-systems-are-supported)
		- [I'm getting "502 Bad Gateway" from Nginx](#i'm-getting-502-bad-gateway-from-nginx)
		- [OMG, you also put the private key on Github?](#omg-you-also-put-the-private-key-on-github)
	- [Want to help?](#want-to-help)
	- [License](#license)

**The repository is accomponied with a blog post we put on [Gibbon]. Go read
[Salting your Django Stack] if you want to know how this came to be.**

## Requirements

Django salted requires the following software to be installed on your machine:

- [Virtualbox]
- [Vagrant]
- [Salty Vagrant]

You also need [Fabric] and [Fabtools] if you want to run the Fabric
commands. You can find these requirements in the [requirements.txt] file in
the root directory.

All of the above are open-source and free to use.

## Submodules

Some of the salt states use salt formulas that are pulled in via git submodules.
The following will ensure these exist.

    git submodule init
    git submodule update

## Getting started (quick)

If you want to quickly try out what this is all about. Your installation will
adhere to the default configuration and use the example Django project. If you
have the requirements installed, it's just a single command:

    vagrant up

After running this command, you should see the Django example website on:
[http://127.0.0.1:8080/](http://127.0.0.1:8080). However, your database tables
still need to be created. There is a fabric command to help you with that:

    fab vagrant syncdb

You will also need to collect the static files to use the demo project. This can be done with fabric also:

    fab vagrant collectstatic

The demo-project is a git submodule that pulls in [django-1.7-template](https://github.com/alexhayes/django-1.7-template).  The webserver, including Django Admin is accessible from the host machine at [http://127.0.0.1:8080/admin](http://127.0.0.1:8080/admin).

Essentially the idea of the demo-project as a submodule is so that you can pull changes from both django-salted as an upstream provider and also your own forked django-1.7-template.

The vagrant machine uses a virtual environment located at `/home/vagrant/.virtualenvs/demo-project` however if you're using an IDE then you will most likely want to install this virtual environment locally also so your IDE can utilise the Python binary. This can be done by installing the requirements file in `demo-project/requirements/development.txt` (if anyone has a way to reference the Python binary on the guest by all means fork and create a pull request - note that a shared folder doesn't work). 

After getting familiar with it, using Django Salted on your own project is simple done with changing a few settings.

- You will run and develop on the Django (1.7.x) `demo-project` inside the VM.
- Ubuntu 14.04 will be used as OS.
- Domain is: vagrant.django-salted.org

## Modify for your own project

Linux

    apt-get install rpl
    rpl -R "demo-project" "your_project_name" *
    mv demo-project your_project_name
    mv your_project_name/demo-project your_project_name/you_project_name

TODO: Write how to modify this repository for your own project.

## FAQ

### How do I get the get the latest state/version?

The fastest way is to run `vagrant provision`. The downfall is that you don't
see what's happening in colors. Or SSH to the box (my favourite) by doing the
following:

    vagrant ssh
    # On the box...
    sudo salt-call state.highstate

### Which Operating Systems are supported?

Currently I have only tested it on Ubuntu 12.04 box. In the future there will
be support for Debian and FreeBSD.

### I'm getting "502 Bad Gateway" from Nginx

Ajj! This means uWSGI is down. It takes 15 seconds for uWSGI to spin up from a
cold boot (because we have to wait on the Vagrant share). However, if after 15
seconds it's still not working, check out what went wrong by looking at the logs:

    vagrant ssh
    sudo cat /var/log/uwsgi/example.log
    # or check the boss (emperor)
    sudo cat /var/log/uwsgi/emperor.log

Let me know in an issue if this is something I need to fix.

### OMG, you also put the private key on Github?

Yes, this private key is used for the Vagrant example project. It's supposed
to be there so you can spin up a box with a single command. Don't put your own
private keys there.

## Want to help?

That would be great! Check out the [TODO.org] or the [Issues] on things to do.

## License

Django-salted was created by Petar Radosevic. You can reach out to me on
twitter at [@wunki].

It's BSD Licensed. Use it however you want, just don't try to sell it back to
me.

[SaltStack]: http://saltstack.com/community.html
[Gibbon]: http://blog.gibbon.co
[PostgreSQL]: http://www.postgresql.org/
[Salting your Django Stack]: http://blog.gibbon.co/posts/2013-06-12-salting-your-django-stack.html
[Virtualbox]: https://www.virtualbox.org/
[Vagrant]: http://www.vagrantup.com/
[Salty Vagrant]: https://github.com/saltstack/salty-vagrant
[uWSGI]: http://uwsgi-docs.readthedocs.org/
[Nginx]: http://nginx.org/
[Fabric]: http://fabfile.org/
[Fabtools]: https://github.com/ronnix/fabtools
[requirements.txt]: https://github.com/wunki/django-salted/blob/master/requirements.txt
[Vagrantfile]: https://github.com/wunki/django-salted/blob/master/Vagrantfile
[TODO.org]: https://github.com/wunki/django-salted/blob/master/TODO.org
[Issues]: https://github.com/wunki/django-salted/issues
[@wunki]: https://twitter.com/wunki
[Celery]: http://www.celeryproject.org/
[RabbitMQ]: http://www.rabbitmq.com/
[Redis]: http://redis.io/
[Supervisor]: http://supervisord.org/
